Title: zettlekasten 
Tags: zettlekasten, productivity, note-taking, learning 
---
## what is zettlekasten?
zettlekasten is a note taking system, the system uses the idea that each note should be atomic, modular, or should use the single responsibiliy principle, each note should be a single indepent thing.
zettlekasten is german for note box

## what are the zettlekasten guidelines?
zettlekasten guidlines:
- use tags to indicate note category
- give your notes an incrementing id
- link notes together using given id
- notes should be in your own words, rarely using quotes
- assume the reader has no context, assume the reader is new to the topic, breakdown to third grader

personal recommendation:
- use the retrieval method when writing notes, refrenced in [article 2](2)

## why not seperate notes in the zettlekasten?

all notes go together, you don't seperate notes because you need to build connections between notes. seperating notes prevents the connetion of notes, preventing the connection of ideas, inhibiting creativity, and problem solving

the only separation the zettlekasten uses is permanent, literature, fleeting. fleeting notes being ideas, thoughts, literature notes being notes from a source such as a book, video, article, etc., permnanent notes being fleeting/literature notes that have been revised/reviewed.

another seperation would be public permanent notes vs private permanent notes

## how will i personally implement zettlekasten note-taking method?

zettlekasten is not perfect, i use it more as a guideline and have modified to best suite my goals, of learning and solving problems

zettlekasten modified for me:
- scratch-notes: no system, no guidelines, except each note having a timestamp of the day it was taken, so only one file/paper containing all scratch notes of the day
- atomic-notes: scratch-notes that follow the zettlekasten guidelines, have been revised, reviewed, tagged, linked to other notes and brokendown, and contain a question as the title

- use the retrieval method when writing notes, refrenced in [article 2](2)


## why use a question as the title for an atomic note?
